Doc: Optimizing Core Web Vitals (#1582)
SAP/spartacus-docs: _pages/dev/performance/core-web-vitals/prioritize-largest-content-paint-image.md

# Prioritize Largest Contentful Paint image

Supposing that you've analyzed each page in your storefront (e.g. Homepage, Product Details Page, Product Listing Page, ...) and you already know which CMS components on those pages contain the Largest Contentful Paint image (for each page it can be a different CMS component). Then you should implement hints for the browsers to prioritize loading of such image to improve the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) metric.

## `fetchPriority` input on `<cx-media>` component

In your custom components that use `<cx-media>` as a child component, you can set the input `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` on the Spartacus `<cx-media>` .This is supported since Spartacus v2211.42.

Under the hood, this will set the HTML attribute `fetchpriority="high"` on the `<img>` element inside the `<cx-media>` component, which will tell the browser to prioritize loading of this image. If it's the Largest Contentful Paint image, then it should help to achieve good LCP metric.

## CMS-driven configuration `lcpCmsComponents` 

> In selected OOTB Spartacus components (listed below), the setting of the `fetchpriority="high"` can be automatically done this for you, if you configure just the CMS component IDs that contain the LCP images. This way, you don't need to modify directly the HTML templates of the OOTB components just to add the `fetchpriority` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In selected OOTB Spartacus components (listed below), the setting of the `fetchpriority="high"` can automatically do this for you, if you configure just the CMS component IDs that contain the LCP images. This way, you don't need to modify directly the HTML templates of the OOTB components just to add the `fetchpriority` attribute.
```

This feature is supported only since Spartacus v2211.43.

The Spartacus global configuration:
- `lcpCmsComponents.ids` allows for configuring a static list of CMS component IDs

> - `lcpCmsComponents.idMarker` allows for configuring a special marker (by default `"__cxLCP__"`) - when it's present in the CMS component ID coming from CMS data, the component will be automatically recognized as having  the Largest Contentful Paint image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `lcpCmsComponents.idMarker` allows for configuring a special marker (by default `"__cxLCP__"`) - when it's present in the CMS component ID coming from CMS data, the component will be automatically recognized as having the Largest Contentful Paint image.
```

- on Product Details Page: it's CMS component with ID `"ProductImagesComponent"`
- on Product Listing Page: it's CMS component with ID `"ProductListComponent"`

... then I can configure the `lcpCmsComponents` in my Spartacus app like this:

Option 1: static list of CMS component IDs:

```typescript
provideConfig({
  lcpCmsComponents: {
    ids: [
      'ElectronicsHomepageSplashBannerComponent',
      'ProductImagesComponent',
      'ProductListComponent',
    ],
  },
}),
```

Option 2: Change the CMS component IDs in the CMS data to include the special marker `__cxLCP__`, for example:

```
ElectronicsHomepageSplashBannerComponent__cxLCP__
ProductImagesComponent__cxLCP__
ProductListComponent__cxLCP__
```

Then you don't need to configure Spartacus `lcpCmsComponents.ids` at all, as Spartacus will automatically recognize the components with the marker in their IDs (default marker is `__cxLCP__`).

If you want to change the default marker, you can do it like this:

```typescript
provideConfig({
  lcpCmsComponents: {
    idMarker: '--myCustomLcpMarker--,
  },
}),
```

### Implementation details of components supporting `lcpCmsComponents`

> The components that support the `lcpCmsComponents` configuration will automatically set the input `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` on the `<cx-media>` component inside them, if the CMS component is recognized as containing the Largest Contentful Paint image. They take this information from the Spartacus directive  `*cxLcpContext` in the HTML template of the component. Alternatively, they can inject the `LCP_CONTEXT` injection token in their typescript code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components that support the `lcpCmsComponents` configuration will automatically set the input `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` on the `<cx-media>` component inside them, if the CMS component is recognized as containing the Largest Contentful Paint image. They take this information from the Spartacus directive `*cxLcpContext` in the HTML template of the component. Alternatively, they can inject the `LCP_CONTEXT` injection token in their typescript code.
```

For example, the `BannerComponent` HTML template looks like this:

```html
<ng-container *cxLcpContext="let lcpContext">
  <cx-media
    [fetchPriority]="lcpContext.fetchPriority$ | async"
    ...other-inputs-here...
  ></cx-media>
</ng-container>
```

> Note: If the CMS component contains multiple `<cx-media>` components (e.g. main image and a few thumbnails), the input `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` should on the `<cx-media>` component that contains the Largest Contentful Paint image, and not on all of them. Otherwise all those images to be loaded eagerly with high priority, which is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If the CMS component contains multiple `<cx-media>` components (e.g. main image and a few thumbnails), the input `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` should be on the `<cx-media>` component that contains the Largest Contentful Paint image, and not on all of them. Otherwise all those images will be loaded eagerly with high priority, which is not recommended.
```

> The Spartacus directive `*cxLcpContext` under the hood injects the injection token `LCP_CONTEXT` in their Typescript class. The token as the `lcpPresence$` observable, which emits the `LcpPresence` enum value (`HAS_LCP` or `NO_LCP`) based on the configured `lcpCmsComponents` configuration and the CMS component's ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Spartacus directive `*cxLcpContext` under the hood injects the injection token `LCP_CONTEXT` in its Typescript class. The token is the `lcpPresence$` observable, which emits the `LcpPresence` enum value (`HAS_LCP` or `NO_LCP`) based on the configured `lcpCmsComponents` configuration and the CMS component's ID.
```

# Prioritizing the Largest Contentful Paint Image

Once you analyze each page in your storefront, such as the Homepage, Product Details Page, and Product Listing Page, and determine which CMS components contain the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) image (which can be in a different CMS component for each page), you can implement hints for the browsers to prioritize the loading of such image to improve the LCP metric.

## Setting the `fetchPriority` Input on the `<cx-media>` Component

In your custom components that use `<cx-media>` as a child component, you can set the `[fetchPriority]="ImageFetchPriority.HIGH"` input on the `<cx-media>` Spartacus component. This is supported with Spartacus 2211.42.

> 

Reviewer 2: Hi @pawelfras ! Just want to confirm, is the version mentioned here (2211.42) actually correct? I don't remember any documentation about this in the previous release (unless we missed it?). Or should it really say "2211.43" here instead? 🙂

Reviewer 2: Sorry, never mind. I see it was indeed implemented in 2211.42... And this is the documentation about it, that we are delivering in 2211.43 🙂
